README.md, before:

# Codewars Katas - Level Up Plan


## Why this?
I wanted to sort Codewars katas (code problems) for people learning JavaScript so they can work their way up through a list sorted by my perceived difficulty level. The difficulty level of Codewars katas can vary too much for students. Especially since new students will have a hard time knowing if a problem is difficult or easy.
(This list might work partially for other languages like C++/Ruby/Python/etc.)

# Let's do this
To level up your skills, do these in order. There's references in each section for you to view. If that's not enough, please Google concepts. And avoid Googling the specific problem/solution.

Important! When you're done with a kata, try to explain your answer out-loud. Explain each line one-by-one.

# Rinse and repeat
When you're done with the list, or feel like you have hit a wall, go back. Go to the beginning and re-do all the problems. Your goal will be to work on understanding the problems without having to use your references.


## Level 0:

- [Hello World](https://www.codewars.com/kata/523b4ff7adca849afe000035)

- [Jenny's Secret Message](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55225023e1be1ec8bc000390) (Bug fix)

- [Return the day](https://www.codewars.com/kata/59dd3ccdded72fc78b000b25) (Comparison)

- [If you can't sleep, just count sheep!!](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5b077ebdaf15be5c7f000077) (String concatenation)

- Friendly reminder to read the solution out-loud

- [Are you Playing Banjo?](https://www.codewars.com/kata/53af2b8861023f1d88000832) (Strings)

- [Multiply](https://www.codewars.com/kata/50654ddff44f800200000004) (function / bug fix)

- [Opposite number](https://www.codewars.com/kata/56dec885c54a926dcd001095) (Math)

- [Basic variable assignment](https://www.codewars.com/kata/50ee6b0bdeab583673000025) (Bug fix)

- [Is n divisible by x and y?](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5545f109004975ea66000086) (Math)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:
- [JavaScript Variables](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Variables)
- [JavsScript Strings](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Strings)
- [JavaScript Booleans](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_booleans.asp)
- [JavaScript If Statements](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_if_else.asp)
- [JavaScript Functions](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_functions.asp)

## Level 1:

- [Unfinished Loop](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55c28f7304e3eaebef0000da) (Bug fix, loops, arrays)

- [Vowel Count](https://www.codewars.com/kata/54ff3102c1bad923760001f3/) (Strings, loops)

- [Grasshopper - Summation](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55d24f55d7dd296eb9000030) (Loops)

- [Will there be enough space?](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5875b200d520904a04000003) (Math)

- Friendly reminder to try be able to explain each line of your code

- [Grasshopper - Debug celsius converter](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55cb854deb36f11f130000e1) (Bug fix / math)

- [Number toString](https://www.codewars.com/kata/53934feec44762736c00044b) (Bug fix)

- [Get Planet Name by id](https://www.codewars.com/kata/515e188a311df01cba000003) (Bug fix)

- [Reversed String](https://www.codewars.com/kata/reversed-strings) (String manipulation) (Try this with a loop instead of any methods)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:

- [JavaScript Loops](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Looping_code)
- [JavaScript Arrays](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays)
- [JavaScript Math](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Math)

## Level 2:
- [Mulitiplication Table](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5a2fd38b55519ed98f0000ce) (Loops)

- [Is this my tail?](https://www.codewars.com/kata/56f695399400f5d9ef000af5) (Bug fix)

- [Sum of Positive](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5715eaedb436cf5606000381) (Arrays, Loops)

- [Student's Final Grade](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5ad0d8356165e63c140014d4) (Comparison)

- Can you explain the answer to that last problem?

- [Find the numbers which are divisible by given number](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55edaba99da3a9c84000003b) (arrays, math)

- [Remove First and Last Character](https://www.codewars.com/kata/56bc28ad5bdaeb48760009b0) (Sub-string)

- [Abbreviate a Two Word Name](https://www.codewars.com/kata/57eadb7ecd143f4c9c0000a3) (String manipulation)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:
- [JavaScript Useful String Methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Useful_string_methods)

## Level 3:

- [Multiply the number](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5708f682c69b48047b000e07) (Math)

- [Closest Elevator](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5c374b346a5d0f77af500a5a) (Math)

- [Array plus array](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5a2be17aee1aaefe2a000151) (Arrays, loops)

- [Squash the bugs](https://www.codewars.com/kata/56f173a35b91399a05000cb7) (Bug fix)

- [Swap Values](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5388f0e00b24c5635e000fc6) (Bug fix) (Hint: How would you write this from scratch?)

- [Sum Arrays](https://www.codewars.com/kata/sum-arrays/javascript)

- What is an array?

- [DNA to RNA Conversion](https://www.codewars.com/kata/dna-to-rna-conversion/javascript) (String manipulation)

- [Keep Hydrated!](https://www.codewars.com/kata/keep-hydrated-1/javascript) (Math)

- [Correct the mistakes of the character recognition software](https://www.codewars.com/kata/correct-the-mistakes-of-the-character-recognition-software/javascript) (String manipulation)

- [Get character from ASCII Value](https://www.codewars.com/kata/get-character-from-ascii-value/javascript)

- [Playing with Cubes II](https://www.codewars.com/kata/playing-with-cubes-ii/train/javascript)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:
- [JavaScript Functions (More in-depth than previous link)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions)

## Level 4:

- [JavaScript class-like objects](https://www.codewars.com/kata/javascript-class-like-objects) (Classes)

- [Regular Ball Super Ball](https://www.codewars.com/kata/53f0f358b9cb376eca001079) (Classes)

- [Finish the Number Game](https://www.codewars.com/kata/568018a64f35f0c613000054) (Classes, throw error)

- [Two fighters, one winner.](https://www.codewars.com/kata/577bd8d4ae2807c64b00045b) (Classes, loops)

- [A Function Within a Function](https://www.codewars.com/kata/53844152aa6fc137d8000589) (Advanced functions)

- [Chain me](https://www.codewars.com/kata/54fb853b2c8785dd5e000957) (Callbacks)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:
- [JavaScript Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes)
- [Callback Function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Callback_function)

## Level 5:

- [Grouped by Commas](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5274e122fc75c0943d000148) (Math, String concatenation)
- [Adam & Eve](https://www.codewars.com/kata/547274e24481cfc469000416) (Classes, subclasses)


## To continue, here's some lists:

- [List: Fundamentals](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/my-languages?beta=false&q=&r=-8&tags=Fundamentals)

- [List: Basic Language Features](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/my-languages?beta=false&q=&r=-8&tags=Basic%20Language%20Features)

- [List: Bug Fix](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/my-languages?beta=false&q=&r=-8&tags=Bugs)

Commit message:

Adding Cuboids and You Only Need One

README.md, after:

# Codewars Katas - Level Up Plan


## Why this?
I wanted to sort Codewars katas (code problems) for people learning JavaScript so they can work their way up through a list sorted by my perceived difficulty level. The difficulty level of Codewars katas can vary too much for students. Especially since new students will have a hard time knowing if a problem is difficult or easy.
(This list might work partially for other languages like C++/Ruby/Python/etc.)

# Let's do this
To level up your skills, do these in order. There's references in each section for you to view. If that's not enough, please Google concepts. And avoid Googling the specific problem/solution.

Important! When you're done with a kata, try to explain your answer out-loud. Explain each line one-by-one.

# Rinse and repeat
When you're done with the list, or feel like you have hit a wall, go back. Go to the beginning and re-do all the problems. Your goal will be to work on understanding the problems without having to use your references.


## Level 0:

- [Hello World](https://www.codewars.com/kata/523b4ff7adca849afe000035)

- [Jenny's Secret Message](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55225023e1be1ec8bc000390) (Bug fix)

- [Return the day](https://www.codewars.com/kata/59dd3ccdded72fc78b000b25) (Comparison)

- [If you can't sleep, just count sheep!!](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5b077ebdaf15be5c7f000077) (String concatenation)

- Friendly reminder to read the solution out-loud

- [Are you Playing Banjo?](https://www.codewars.com/kata/53af2b8861023f1d88000832) (Strings)

- [Multiply](https://www.codewars.com/kata/50654ddff44f800200000004) (function / bug fix)

- [Opposite number](https://www.codewars.com/kata/56dec885c54a926dcd001095) (Math)

- [Basic variable assignment](https://www.codewars.com/kata/50ee6b0bdeab583673000025) (Bug fix)

- [Is n divisible by x and y?](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5545f109004975ea66000086) (Math)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:
- [JavaScript Variables](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Variables)
- [JavsScript Strings](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Strings)
- [JavaScript Booleans](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_booleans.asp)
- [JavaScript If Statements](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_if_else.asp)
- [JavaScript Functions](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_functions.asp)

## Level 1:

- [Unfinished Loop](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55c28f7304e3eaebef0000da) (Bug fix, loops, arrays)

- [You Only Need One](https://www.codewars.com/kata/you-only-need-one-beginner) (Loops)

- [Vowel Count](https://www.codewars.com/kata/54ff3102c1bad923760001f3/) (Strings, loops)

- [Grasshopper - Summation](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55d24f55d7dd296eb9000030) (Loops)

- [Will there be enough space?](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5875b200d520904a04000003) (Math)

- Friendly reminder to try be able to explain each line of your code

- [Grasshopper - Debug celsius converter](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55cb854deb36f11f130000e1) (Bug fix, math)

- [Difference of Volumes of Cuboids](https://www.codewars.com/kata/difference-of-volumes-of-cuboids) (Arrays, math)

- [Number toString](https://www.codewars.com/kata/53934feec44762736c00044b) (Bug fix)

- [Get Planet Name by id](https://www.codewars.com/kata/515e188a311df01cba000003) (Bug fix)

- [Reversed String](https://www.codewars.com/kata/reversed-strings) (String manipulation) (Try this with a loop instead of any methods)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:

- [JavaScript Loops](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Looping_code)
- [JavaScript Arrays](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays)
- [JavaScript Math](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Math)

## Level 2:
- [Mulitiplication Table](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5a2fd38b55519ed98f0000ce) (Loops)

- [Is this my tail?](https://www.codewars.com/kata/56f695399400f5d9ef000af5) (Bug fix)

- [Sum of Positive](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5715eaedb436cf5606000381) (Arrays, Loops)

- [Student's Final Grade](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5ad0d8356165e63c140014d4) (Comparison)

- Can you explain the answer to that last problem?

- [Find the numbers which are divisible by given number](https://www.codewars.com/kata/55edaba99da3a9c84000003b) (arrays, math)

- [Remove First and Last Character](https://www.codewars.com/kata/56bc28ad5bdaeb48760009b0) (Sub-string)

- [Abbreviate a Two Word Name](https://www.codewars.com/kata/57eadb7ecd143f4c9c0000a3) (String manipulation)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:
- [JavaScript Useful String Methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Useful_string_methods)

## Level 3:

- [Multiply the number](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5708f682c69b48047b000e07) (Math)

- [Closest Elevator](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5c374b346a5d0f77af500a5a) (Math)

- [Array plus array](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5a2be17aee1aaefe2a000151) (Arrays, loops)

- [Squash the bugs](https://www.codewars.com/kata/56f173a35b91399a05000cb7) (Bug fix)

- [Swap Values](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5388f0e00b24c5635e000fc6) (Bug fix) (Hint: How would you write this from scratch?)

- [Sum Arrays](https://www.codewars.com/kata/sum-arrays/javascript)

- What is an array?

- [DNA to RNA Conversion](https://www.codewars.com/kata/dna-to-rna-conversion/javascript) (String manipulation)

- [Keep Hydrated!](https://www.codewars.com/kata/keep-hydrated-1/javascript) (Math)

- [Correct the mistakes of the character recognition software](https://www.codewars.com/kata/correct-the-mistakes-of-the-character-recognition-software/javascript) (String manipulation)

- [Get character from ASCII Value](https://www.codewars.com/kata/get-character-from-ascii-value/javascript)

- [Playing with Cubes II](https://www.codewars.com/kata/playing-with-cubes-ii/train/javascript)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:
- [JavaScript Functions (More in-depth than previous link)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions)

## Level 4:

- [JavaScript class-like objects](https://www.codewars.com/kata/javascript-class-like-objects) (Classes)

- [Regular Ball Super Ball](https://www.codewars.com/kata/53f0f358b9cb376eca001079) (Classes)

- [Finish the Number Game](https://www.codewars.com/kata/568018a64f35f0c613000054) (Classes, throw error)

- [Two fighters, one winner.](https://www.codewars.com/kata/577bd8d4ae2807c64b00045b) (Classes, loops)

- [A Function Within a Function](https://www.codewars.com/kata/53844152aa6fc137d8000589) (Advanced functions)

- [Chain me](https://www.codewars.com/kata/54fb853b2c8785dd5e000957) (Callbacks)

#### Suggested Reading / Reference:
- [JavaScript Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes)
- [Callback Function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Callback_function)

## Level 5:

- [Grouped by Commas](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5274e122fc75c0943d000148) (Math, String concatenation)
- [Adam & Eve](https://www.codewars.com/kata/547274e24481cfc469000416) (Classes, subclasses)


## To continue, here's some lists:

- [List: Fundamentals](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/my-languages?beta=false&q=&r=-8&tags=Fundamentals)

- [List: Basic Language Features](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/my-languages?beta=false&q=&r=-8&tags=Basic%20Language%20Features)

- [List: Bug Fix](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/my-languages?beta=false&q=&r=-8&tags=Bugs)
